Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
========================================

This is a course project for the Getting and Cleaning Data course on
Coursera.

### Project Description

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect,
work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that
can be used for later analysis. You will be graded by your peers on a
series of yes/no questions related to the project. You will be required
to submit: 1) a tidy data set as described below, 2) a link to a Github
repository with your script for performing the analysis, and 3) a code
book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or
work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. You
should also include a README.md in the repo with your scripts. This repo
explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is
wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like
Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced
algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course
website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the
Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full [description is
available](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)
at the site where the data was obtained.

Here are the [data for the
project](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)

You should create one R script called run\_analysis.R that does the
following.

1.  Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2.  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation
    for each measurement.
3.  Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data
    set
4.  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data
    set with the average of each variable for each activity and each
    subject.

### Repository Contents

-   *Codebook.md*: Modifies and updates the available codebooks with the
    data to indicate all the variables and summaries calculated, along
    with units, and any other relevant information. transform them
-   *run\_analysis.R*: R script that reads the raw data from working
    directory and performs actions 1-5 in the project description.
-   *tidy\_grouped\_means.txt*: Tidy data generated by running
    *run\_analysis.R* on the raw data. File is tab delimited, values are
    means of original data means, grouped by subject and activity.
-   *README.md*

### Reproducibility Instructions

1.  Download [raw
    data](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).
2.  Unzip and place directory "UCI HAR Dataset"" in working directory.
3.  Place *run\_analisys.R* in working directory and type
    `source("run_analysis.R")`.
